hi guys what's up my name is April
Whitney welcome to my channel
smolitics channel and welcome to the
latest episode of strong for summer
today we are headed into the gym
together to work on our glutes the booty
it's gonna be a full gym workout I'm
gonna provide voiceover through the
whole thing so that you know how to do
these exercises with proper form you
know how to do it and feel like a pro I
got you stay tuned and let's head to the
gym so I start every workout session
whether I'm doing weight lifting or
cardio no matter what it is with some
self myofascial release SMR also known
as foam rolling I pretty much do the
same routine every time and I've put
this on my Instagram a bunch which is
why I'm speeding through it but just
make sure that you're hitting all parts
your body the reason why I do this
before working out is because it's going
to draw blood flow into the area it
increases the extensibility of your
muscle fibers and your flexibility so
it's going to prime you for lifting
weights and help you prevent injury by
now you can tell I've moved into my
dynamic warmup which is also all on my
Instagram so check it out if you haven't
seen it I'm starting off with the sumo
deadlift which takes a wider stance in
the conventional deadlift and as a
result has a shorter range of motion
this is a great exercise to work on your
posterior chain meaning the muscles that
make up the back of your body to get in
position stand outside of shoulder width
distance and turn your toes out about 45
degrees your knees should be forced
outwards behind the bar but still
touching the bar bend your knees until
your shins are vertical grip the bar
with a double overhand grip most people
will prefer to grip the bar with their
hands closer together than with the
conventional deadlift now pull your
shoulder blades back together like
you're pinching a pencil between them
and bring the chest up your chin is
slightly tucked and you're looking at
the floor in front of you this is your
starting position from here take a deep
breath in and stand with the exhale
spreading the floor with your feet lock
your knees at the top of the movement
and then lower the bar keeping a flat
back in the bar touching your shins on
the way
I'm super setting the sumo deadlift with
a glute pull through these are pretty
much a standing version of hip thrusts
and the movement as a hip hinge for this
reason make sure all of the movement is
originating from your hips and not from
your arms or your shoulders also to make
this exercise even more effective I have
a hack just go ahead and move the cable
setting about one foot off the ground so
that the cable is about parallel to the
ground when you hit thrust this is going
to eliminate any vertical forces aside
from gravity and emphasize the
horizontal load to challenge your glutes
even more I also want you to turn your
toes out just slightly to target your
glutes
[Music]
the next superset starts with hip
thrusts while this might be intimidating
to try it first this is one of the best
exercises for developing the booty it's
also used by professional athletes to
develop crazy strength and power on the
hips and glutes so it's really worth
adding to your program set up with your
toes turn slightly out and remember to
always take a breath in before lifting
push through your heels feel free to use
some kind of padding like I am to
comfortably place the bar above the
pubic bone now make sure the top you're
getting a full hip extension
if you cannot lock out your hips at the
top it means that your weight is too
heavy and you need to drop down your
weight or even use a dumbbell instead of
the barbell the focus should be on using
your glutes to press the bar straight
upwards at the end of each set I held
the last rep isometrically for five
seconds just to make sure I was really
strengthening my end range hip extension
and just really working in it the second
exercise in this superset is a single
leg elevated glute bridge this is a
great exercise for strengthening of
glutes and hamstrings and building on
your single leg stability make sure you
keep your belly button drawn into your
spine for a tight core push through your
heel and squeeze your glutes together at
the top always do it the same number of
reps on each side
[Music]
[Applause]
now I'm just taking a break from
training my glutes to work on my
pull-ups one of my goals for this year
is to be able to do eight unassisted
pull-ups I'm currently using the
smallest assistance band and I took a
break from training my pull-ups for
about two months this summer which has
put me back a little bit in my progress
but my goal is to Train my pull-up
strength about three times a week
working on variations including
negatives so right now I'm just trying
to get in three sets of eight reps if
you do pull-ups and you use an assist
band and you find that you can't get the
eight reps in then you need to get a get
a higher resistance band to get through
that eight reps in a row I am super
setting the pull-ups with abduction hip
abduction with the plate this can be
done in a lot of ways not just with a
plate if you don't want to work your arm
you can also use the cable machine if
you have the ankle the ankle attachment
you could also use a dumbbell you can
use the abduction machine the seated
abduction at the gym if your gym has one
all of these will help you train the
outsides of your hips working on hip
abduction is super important if you have
an office job and you sit a lot because
if your adductors are very tight from
sitting then you need to strengthen the
outside of your hips to help keep your
knees from wanting to bend in towards
each other in exercises such as the
squat and lastly as my metabolic
finisher or burnout I'm doing a
kettlebell burnout focus on the glutes
and super setting that with a reverse
lunge
single leg skip to a little hop with a
kettlebell this is really targeting the
glutes and because our glutes are
already really fatigued on the workout
you're really gonna feel this it's also
gonna get the heart rate up and just
boost your metabolism since it's so
metabolically metabolically
[Music]
all right so that's it for the workout
in the gym I hope you guys enjoyed it if
you liked it please give it a thumbs up
and subscribe to my channel and if you
want to see more in the gym workouts
please let me know thank you for
watching bye
[Music]